19 Creating APIs

We are going to build an API for our movies.
So some other website can send a request and get the list of our movies in json format.
We are going to expose a new endpoint that starts with api.
For example "http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/movies"
So other sites or app can send a http request to this endpoint.


There two packages recommend to build api in django

#1
django-tastypie
This is a very simple package but works really good in small application

#2
djangorestframework
This framework is more complex and feature rich. Better for large enterprise application

For this lesson  we are going to use
django-tastypie

First we install django-tastypie
> pipenv install django-tastypie

Then we need to create a new app in the project for the API. (for exposing API endpoints)
> python manage.py startapp api

Now we need to register this 'api' app in the list of the installed apps, in the "setting.py" module.

INSTALLED_APPS = [
    'django.contrib.admin',
    'django.contrib.auth',
    'django.contrib.contenttypes',
    'django.contrib.sessions',
    'django.contrib.messages',
    'django.contrib.staticfiles',
    'movies.apps.MoviesConfig',
    'api.apps.ApiConfig'
]

Next in the "api" app we need to add a new model in the "models.py" module.
In the world of API we refer to our models as resources.

RESTful API
REST stand for Representational State Transfer
It's a convention that define how applications should talk to each other over http protocol.
In the REST world we have url (uniform resource locator) with an url we can locate a resource.
In our case movies.

In the "models.py" module we need to create a movies resource class that derives from the
"ModelResource" class in the "tastypie.resources".
Tastypie looks for an inner class in this class called "Meta", so we need to add that inner class.
This class defines metadata about our movies resources.
Then we have to add some attributes that tastypie looks for.

The first attribute "queryset" and we need to set it to the list of all the movies.
To do that we need to import the "Movie" class from the "movies.models" module,
and set the "queryset" variable to "Movie.objects.all()".
This "all()" method returns a query.
This query will be executed some point in the future when someone call our API.
This is what we call lazy loading. So this query object is a lazy object.

The second attributes we need to set is "resource_name" and this defines how our endpoint will look like.
In our case we set it to movies. So latter we will have an API available at "api/movies".
We can use the "excludes" attribute to exclude data we do not want to show in our API.
In this example the "date_created", that is only used internally in our app.

from django.db import models
from tastypie.resources import ModelResource
from movies.models import Movie

class MovieResource(ModelResource):
    class Meta:
        queryset = Movie.objects.all()
        resource_name = "movies"
        excludes = ["date_created"]


The next step is to generate our url endpoints.
In the main app "fidly" open the "urls.py" module.
We first need to import the "MovieResource" from the "api.models" module.
And then instantiate and object with the "ModelResource()" class
This object, after being instantiated with the "ModelResource()" class, has a property called ".urls"
This attribute return the urls for this movie resource,
based on the "resource_name" we set in the "model.py" module from the "api" app.

from django.contrib import admin
from django.urls import path, include
from api.models import MovieResource

movie_resource = MovieResource()

urlpatterns = [
    path('admin/', admin.site.urls),
    path('movies/', include('movies.urls')),
    path('api/', include(movie_resource.urls))
]