22 Deployment

To deploy to the cloud service first we are going to commit our code to a git repository.
We will set a local repository and then a repository in Heroku, that mirrors our local repository.
(So basically, 2 repositories, one local, one in Heroku)
When we are ready to deploy we push the changes form our local repository to a repository in Heroku.

Heroku has a process, that sits in the background and its constantly watching these git repositories.
Whenever it detects changes in this repository, it will check out the latest source code from this
repository and copy it to the right folder

.py files -----(commit)----> local repo -----(push)----> heroku repo

1. Initialize a local git repository in the root folder of our app.
> git init

2. Add file to git everytime we make changes to the code.
We use the "." to add all the new and modified files and folders.
This adds them to the staging area and prepares them to be included in the next commit.
> git add .

3. Add a commit
We use the argument "-m" to add a message to the commit.
> git commit -m "My message"
> git commit -m "Initial commit"

4. Now we need to create a Heroku app using Heroku CLI.
First we login with the following command.
> heroku login
This will ask to open the browser to enter credential.
We can also give the credentials in the terminal itself, using
> heroku login -i

5. Then we run the command to create a new Heroku app.
> heroku create
It will create an app with a random name (secret-refuge-81953).
We can also give our name to the app. But that name has to be unique.
> heroku create fidly123

In this case, we use
> heroku create --stack heroku-20
(to avoid compatibility issues)

If this command terminates successful 3 thing happen.
Heroku will create an app with an address;
Heroku will create a git repository with an address;
And then it tells our current local repository, about this new remote Heroku repository.

We will see in the terminal:
Creating app... done, ⬢ sheltered-tundra-05087, stack is heroku-20
https://sheltered-tundra-05087.herokuapp.com/ | https://git.heroku.com/sheltered-tundra-05087.git

6. Now to deploy our application we need to run:
> git push heroku master
This will push our local master branch to the heroku repository.
If we dont get any error, means our application is deployed, and it generate the URL:
https://sheltered-tundra-05087.herokuapp.com/

7. Now we need to tell Heroku to allocate one webserver to this application.
> heroku ps:scale web=1
With this line of code we are allocating one webserver to our app.
In future, if we have thousands of users, we can come back here and allocate more web servers by
increasing this number.

8. Now finally, we can open our application in web browser using:
> heroku open
(By default, we will get "DisallowedHost" error, This is to prevent a common security attack called
 HTTP Host header attacks, to fix this problem apply the next step)

9. If we have not done this before, we have to add the address of our app(website) to the
 "ALLOWED_HOSTS" list in the "setting.py" module.
ALLOWED_HOSTS = [
    "sheltered-tundra-05087.herokuapp.com"
]
Then we need to update our local repository, and then push it to Heroku

> git add .
> git commit -m "Add Heroku app to allowed hosts."
> git push heroku master
Now refresh the website, Voila!! We can now access our application, admin interface, and the APIs.
